Situational Awareness
Let’s take a look at a few modules
to see what they consist of.
We'll target the dedicated Active
Directory lab environment in this section.
To begin, let’s explore the
situational awareness category.
While there are many methods and commands
for performing network enumeration,
the primary focus of this category
is on local client
and Active Directory enumeration.
For example, let’s investigate
the get_user module.
We’ll issue the info command
to display information about the module.
First, let’s take a look at
the header section.
The Name, Module, and Language fields
are self-explanatory.
If the script requires local
Administrator permissions,
the NeedsAdmin field will be set to “True”.
If we wish to avoid leaving behind
the indicators of compromise,
such as temporary disk files
or new user accounts,
we set the OpsecSafe field to “True”
This stealth-driven approach
has a greater likelihood
of evading endpoint protection mechanisms.
The MinLanguageVersion field
describes the minimum version of
PowerShell required to execute the script.
This is especially relevant when working with Windows 7
or Windows Server 2008 R2 targets
as they ship with PowerShell version 2.
Background tells us if the module executes
in the background without visibility
for the victim,
while OutputExtension
tells us the output format
if the module returns output to a file.
Several options follow the header fields.
In this particular module,
all of these are optional
except Agent, which is already set.
This module will work as-is,
enumerating all users in the
target Active Directory.
We could set any number
of filtering options
but we’ll simply run the
module with execute.
In addition to the enumeration tools
in the PowerView subcategory,
the situational awareness category
also includes a wide variety of
network and port scanners.